now Germany's president fun Balin Meer
is in Jerusalem in a show of solidarity
with Israel he's expected to meet prime
minister Benyamin Netanyahu later on
Sunday schin meire met families of
hostages taken by Hamas in the October
the 7th terrorist attacks and he also
held talks with the Israeli president
Isaac Herzog schin Meyer's two-day trip
to Israel will be followed by visits to
both Oman and Qatar here's what he had
to say about the situation
in
Gaza Hamas has forced a war upon the
entire middle east region nobody can
deny Israel the right to decisively
combat the terror and to defend itself
against these brutal
attacks and yes this fight also affects
civilians in the Gaza Strip measures to
protect civilians in Gaza continue to be
necessary as is the provision of
essential
Aid that's what international
humanitarian law
demands and that's why it's good that
the agreed pauses in the fighting are
being used to provide the civilian
population in the Gaza Strip with
humanitarian
Aid that was the German president Frank
steinm speaking there DW's Chief
political editor Micha kufner is
standing by for us right now Micha this
is an important visit for the German
president isn't
it yes absolutely um the German foreign
minister was already there several times
the German Chancellor Olaf Schultz was
there and now Germany's president spoke
to his Israeli counterpart there Isaac
hatok conveying the message once again
that Germany stands by what is a
fundamental principle of German
policy it's called here in German uh
which is is to stand in for the security
of Israel and of Jewish life in Germany
and elsewhere at the same time we also
heard Frank Val steinm there show
empathy towards uh the suffering of
Palestinian civilians he's also due to
visit a hospital in East Jerusalem today
he also uh visited a kibuts and has
pledged 7 million EUR uh that's just
come through to help reconstruct that
which was attacked by Hamas so he's
trying to really convey the message that
yes Germany will stand by Israel and at
the same time show the world and try to
make the case that Germany is not biased
against the suffering of civilians on
the Palestinian
side Beyond showing solidarity though
what role does Germany actually play uh
in this conflict does it have any actual
clout to some degree the real clout here
as we've all seen also in recent weeks
is really with the United States and
with uh countries in the region Qatar of
course being a key country there which
helped negotiate uh this exchange uh
between Israel and uh Hamas uh of course
with those people held hostage being
sent back hopefully also uh today and in
exchange Israel handing over detainees
and prisoners um at the same time
Germany enjoys trust by Israel that
really came through here um so it will
always act in Israel's best interest
that's what Germany's pledged once again
at the same time it is a major donor
towards Palestinian civilians so it's
trying trying to act in Israel's best
interests also talking with Partners in
the
regionin is going to be staying in the
region uh until Wednesday isn't he can
you tell us a bit more about his other
stops yes he will travel on to Oman and
then to Qatar both countries have close
ties with Palestinians Qatar of course
um where some Hamas leaders are actually
residing having the closest and most
direct contacts with Hamas leaders so
that's where the German president Frank
valta steinm who also is a former
foreign minister which is becoming very
tangible here will try and do Germany's
bit to try and stabilize the situation
and hopefully get more of those hostages
released okay a thanks so much for that
that's DW's Chief political editor m
cner